.\" Manpage for createpackage {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2025 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd February 19, 2024
.Dt CREATEPACKAGE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm createpackage
.Nd Creates self-extracting archive packages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy createpackage
.Op Fl l Fl u Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl a Ar <add_file> ...
.Op Fl c Ar <compression>
.Op Fl e Ar <encoding>
.Op Fl E Ar <install_environment>
.Op Fl f Ar <package>
.Op Fl i Ar <installer>
.Op Fl m Ar <manifest>
.Op Fl p Ar <package_type>
.Op Fl x Ar <exclude_pattern> ...
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Op Ar <source_directory>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Creates a self-extracting archive package using one of three base archive types:
.Bl -bullet -offset 4n -width 4n
.It
tar - Tape Archive (using the tar command)
.It
shar - Shell Archive (using the shar command)
.It
star - Simple Text Archive (using the star command)
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy createpackage
.Op Fl l Fl u Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl a Ar <add_file> ...
.Op Fl c Ar <compression>
.Op Fl e Ar <encoding>
.Op Fl E Ar <install_environment>
.Op Fl f Ar <package>
.Op Fl i Ar <installer>
.Op Fl m Ar <manifest>
.Op Fl p Ar <package_type>
.Op Fl x Ar <exclude_pattern> ...
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Op Ar <source_directory>
.Ed
.Pp
Available command line options are:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl a Ar <add_file>
Add File
.Pp
Used to add additional files to the package archive.
Adds the provided
.Ar <add_file>
file.
.It Fl c Ar <compression>
Compression
.Pp
The compression argument to use with the archive tool.
This is only relevant for the tar archiver.
The default is "-j" which requests bzip2 compression.
.It Fl e Ar <encoding>
Encoding
.Pp
The encoding argument to be used with the archive tool.
This is only relevant for the shar archiver.
The default is "-T" which requests text encoding.
Note: The shar archiver will uuencode non-text files and text files with lines
longer than 200 characters.
Please see the
.Xr shar 1
command for more details.
.It Fl E Ar <install_environment>
Install Environment
.Pp
Include the provided
.Ar <install_environment>
string on the commmand line prior before the installer command.
This enables the creation of environment variables, etc. for use by the
installer.
.It Fl f Ar <package>
Package Filename
.Pp
The filename for the package.
.Pp
Note: When creating an archive, if the filename provided does not have an
extension, a ".tarp", ".sharp", or a ".starp" extension will be added, depending
upon the package type selected with the
.Fl p
(Package Type) option flag.
.It Fl i Ar <installer>
Installer
.Pp
Execute the program at the
.Ar <installer>
path provided.
The path should be relative to the
.Ar <source_directory> .
When the archive is unpacked prior to install, a mirror of the source directory
will be created in a temporary directory.
The installer will be executed in that location.
.It Fl l
List Files
.Pp
List the root directories to be included in the package.
.It Fl m Ar <manifest>
Manifest File
.Pp
Use the contents of the file at the
.Ar <manifest>
path as the listing of root directories to include in the package.
.It Fl p Ar <package_type>
Package Type
.Pp
Defines the package type.
The available package types are "sharp", "starp", and "tarp".
The types define the base archive format used within the package.
The "sharp" type uses the shell archive (shar) archiver.
The "starp" type uses the simple text archive (shar) archiver.
The "tarp" type uses the tape archive (tar) archiver.
The default is the "tarp" package type as it provides the most robust archive
format, however, it does generate binary packages.
The ".sharp" and ".starp" formats create text packages, uuencoded, and
clear-text, respectfully.
Please note that the ".starp" format only supports text files.
See the
.Xr shar 1 ,
.Xr star 1 ,
and
.Xr tar 1
commands for more information on the base archives.
.It Fl x Ar <exclude_pattern> ...
Exclude
.Pp
Filename patterns that will be excluded from the package archive.
The patterns follow the rules defined by the "tar" application.
(The "tar" application is always used to collect the package files prior to the
creation of the final base archive for the package.)
See the
.Xr tar 1
command for more information on the exclude patterns.
.It Ar <source_directory>
Source Directory
.Pp
.Pp
When used with
The source directory should contain the files to be archived.
.El
.Ss STANDARD OPTIONS
This script was built using the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library.
Standard command line options provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library are:
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) and
.Fl X Ar <option>
(XOption).
XOptions include Confirm, Force, NoAction, Overwrite, Quiet, Version, and Yes.
They are enabled using the first letter of the option (lower or upper case) as
.Ar <option> .
Please see
.Xr libui.sh 3
for more information.
.Pp
Note: Option value defaults can be obtained by executing with the
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) option.
.Sh FILES
The script will create or read from the file provided with the
.Fl f Ar <filename>
option flag.
The script will collect, with the
.Fl c
(Crate) option flag, or create, with the
.Fl x
(Extract) option flag, files from the directory provided with the
.Ar <filepath>
parameter.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some example uses include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy createpackage -c -f /tmp/keep .
.Ed
.Pp
Creates an archive named "keep.star" in the /tmp directory with the text files
contained in the current directory.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr shar 1 ,
.Xr star 1 ,
.Xr tar 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
