.\" Manpage for linechecksum {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd May 18, 2023
.Dt LINECHECKSUM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm linechecksum
.Nd Display various checksums for lines in a file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy linechecksum
.Op Fl C Fl F Fl H Fl h Fl N Fl Q Fl V Fl Y
.Op Fl e Ar <end_line>
.Op Fl i Ar <interval>
.Op Fl l Ar <lines>
.Op Fl s Ar <start_line>
.Op Fl X Ar <level>
.Ar <File> ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Used to calculate character sums and CRC32 sums for each line in the files
provided.
Also provides a CRC32 checksum for the entire file.
If multiple files are provided, each file is separately split and displayed in a
separate block.
.Pp
Example output:
.Bd -literal
  Line Cumulative Char Sum        CRC32 Sum      CRC32   File Line
------ ---------- -------- ---------------- ----------   ---------
   70:        875      875       2565182507 2565182507 |     local _a
   71:       1754     1754       6285642157 3720459650 |     local _e
   72:       4013     4013       8275510404 1989868247 |     eval "_a=( \\"\\${${1}[@]}\\" )"
   73:       5767     5767       8478461929  202951525 |     for _e in "${_a[@]}"
   74:       6106     6106       9462938244  984476315 |     do
   75:       9099     9099      10570684514 1107746270 |       [[ "${2}" == "${_e}" ]] && _rv=0 && break
       ----------
   75:       9099 (file checksum:  490192437) /home/fharvell/.env/lib/sh/libui.sh
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy linechecksum
.Op Fl C Fl F Fl H Fl h Fl N Fl Q Fl V Fl Y
.Op Fl e Ar <end_line>
.Op Fl i Ar <block_size>
.Op Fl l Ar <skip_lines>
.Op Fl s Ar <start_line>
.Op Fl X Ar <level>
.Ar <File> ...
.Ed
.Pp
Available Command line options are:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl e Ar <end_line>
End Line
.Pp
The line number to end processing.
.It Fl i Ar <block_size>
Iterate
.Pp
The number of lines to include in each display iteration.
The default is 40 lines.
.It Fl l Ar <skip_lines>
Lines
.Pp
The number of lines to skip between each displayed checksum line.
The skipped lines are included in the checksum.
.It Fl s Ar <start_line>
Start Line
.Pp
The line number to start processing.
.It Ar <file>
The name of the file(s) to be processed.
.El
.Ss STANDARD OPTIONS
This script was built using the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library.
Standard command line options provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library are:
.Fl C
(Confirm),
.Fl F
(Force),
.Fl H
or
.Fl h
(Help),
.Fl N
(No Action),
.Fl Q
(Quiet),
.Fl V
(Version),
.Fl X Ar <level>
(XDebug
.Ar <level> ) Ns ,
and
.Fl Y
(Yes).
Please see
.Xr libui.sh 3
for more information.
.Pp
Note: Option value defaults can be obtained by executing with the
.Fl H
or
.Fl h
(Help) option.
.Sh FILES
The script creates a temporary directory (via GetTmp) that should be removed
upon exit.
Certain circumstances (e.g. some crashes) may prevent the cleanup handler from
being executed leaving the temporary directory in place.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some example uses include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy linechecksum path/to/file
.Ed
.Pp
This splits path/to/file into one block and provides the checksum and a whole
file checksum.
Note: The checksums will be the same.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy linechecksum \-l 100 path/to/file
.Ed
.Pp
This splits path/to/file into block of 100 lines each and provides the checksum
for each split and a whole file checksum.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy linechecksum -i 40 \-s 100 path/to/file
.Ed
.Pp
This displays path/to/file 40 lines at a time starting at line 100 and provides
the checksum for each split and a whole file checksum.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr splitchecksum 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
