.\" Manpage for mless {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd August 12, 2023
.Dt STAR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mless
.Nd Display markdown files from a command line in a terminal
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy mless
.Op Fl C Fl F Fl H Fl h Fl N Fl Q Fl V Fl Y
.Op Fl P Ar <file>
.Op Fl X Ar <level>
.Op Ar <filepath> ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Attempts to display markdown text files using color highlighting in XTERM-color
terminal displays using less.
Due to the limited terminal environment, mless has limited capabilities
including:
.Bl -bullet -offset 4n
.It
Support for emphasis and underlined text
.It
Support for unordered lists
.It
Basic support for ordered lists (up to 3 digits)
.It
Basic support for block indents (up to 4 levels)
.It
Basic support for headers (up to 4 levels)
.It
Basic support for backslash (\\) escapes
.It
Removing (without supporting) HTML tags
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy mless
.Op Fl C Fl F Fl H Fl h Fl N Fl Q Fl V Fl Y
.Op Fl P Ar <file>
.Op Fl X Ar <level>
.Op Ar <filepath>
.Ed
.Pp
Available command line options are:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Ar <filepath> ...
File Path
.Pp
The files to display.
Each file is interpreted and displayed using the "less" application.
If the filepath provided is not found, the script will attempt to find the file
by first adding a ".md" extension, and then searching through the directories in
the
.Ev MLESSPATH
environment variable.
.Pp
See
.Xr less 1
for more information.
.Pp
Note: If the
.Ar <filepath>
is not provided, STDIN will be used.
.El
.Ss STANDARD OPTIONS
This script was built using the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library.
Standard command line options provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library are:
.Fl C
(Confirm),
.Fl F
(Force),
.Fl H
or
.Fl h
(Help),
.Fl N
(No Action),
.Fl P Ar <file>
(Load Profile),
.Fl Q
(Quiet),
.Fl V
(Version),
.Fl X Ar <level>
(XDebug
.Ar <level> ) ,
and
.Fl Y
(Yes).
Please see
.Xr libui.sh 3
for more information.
.Pp
Note: Option value defaults can be obtained by executing with the
.Fl H
or
.Fl h
(Help) option.
.Sh FILES
If no files are found using the provided
.Ar <filepath>
parameter, the script will attempt to find the file by first adding a ".md"
extension, and then searching through the directories in the
.Ev MLESSPATH
environment variable.
The paths in the
.Ev MLESSPATH
environment variable should be separated using colons (:).
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some example uses include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy mless /tmp/keep
.Ed
.Pp
Interprets and displays the file named keep (or keep.md) in the /tmp directory.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy mless libui-dictionary
.Ed
.Pp
Interprets and displays the file named libui-dictionary (or libui-dictionary.md)
in the current directory or in a directory listed in the
.Ev MLESSPATH
environment variable.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr less 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
