.\" Manpage for repopull {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2025 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd January 2, 2024
.Dt REPOPULL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm repopull
.Nd Update all git branches inside the WORKSPACE directory
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy repopull
.Op Fl c Fl s Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl b Ar <branch>
.Op Fl m Ar <branch>
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Op Ar <WORKSPACE>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Used to issue an (optional) "git checkout branch", "git pull", and (optional)
git merge branch in each repository in the WORKSPACE directory.
The WORKSPACE needs to be the path above the git repositories.
.Pp
If
.Ar <WORKSPACE>
is not provided, the path provided in the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable will be used.
If the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable is not defined, the ~/.config/workspace file will be
sourced (to define
.Ev WORKSPACE Ns ).
If the ~/.config/workspace file does not exist, the current working directory
will be used.
.Pp
Note: Interpolates branch names using an associative array sourced from
~/.gitrepos file with array like:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy branch[ Ns So Sy repo Sc Ns Sy ]= Ns So Sy alternate_branch_name Sc
.Ed
.Pp
See the FILES section below for more information.
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy repopull
.Op Fl c Fl s Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl b Ar <branch>
.Op Fl m Ar <branch>
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Op Ar <WORKSPACE>
.Ed
.Pp
Available command line options are:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl b Ar <branch>
Branch
.Pp
Specify the branch to check out.
.It Fl c
Clear
.Pp
Clear out modified files and reset to the branch HEAD.
.It Fl m Ar <branch>
Merge
.Pp
Specify the branch to merge into the currently checked out branch.
.It Fl s
Status
.Pp
Display repo status.
.It Op Ar <WORKSPACE>
The workspace directory.
.Pp
If the workspace directory is not provided, the path provided in the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable is used.
If the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable is not defined, the ~/.config/workspace file will be
sourced (to define
.Ev WORKSPACE Ns ).
If the ~/.config/workspace file does not exist, the current working directory
will be used.
.El
.Ss STANDARD OPTIONS
This script was built using the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library.
Standard command line options provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library are:
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) and
.Fl X Ar <option>
(XOption).
XOptions include Confirm, Force, NoAction, Overwrite, Quiet, Version, and Yes.
They are enabled using the first letter of the option (lower or upper case) as
.Ar <option> .
Please see
.Xr libui.sh 3
for more information.
.Pp
Note: Option value defaults can be obtained by executing with the
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) option.
.Sh FILES
The ~/.gitrepos file may contain an associative array that is used to
interpolate branch names.
For example, the following entry defines alternative branch names for certain
repositories when pulling the dev branch using
.Sy repopull Fl b Sy dev :
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy declare Fl A Sy dev
.Sy dev[ Ns So Sy artifactory\-helpers Sc Ns Sy ]= Ns So Sy master Sc
.Sy def[ Ns So Sy devops_tools Sc Ns Sy ]= Ns So Sy develop Sc
.Sy dev[ Ns So Sy tr3_pcd Sc Ns Sy ]= Ns So Sy dev Sc
.Sy dev[ Ns So Sy tr3_tools Sc Ns Sy ]= Ns So Sy dev Sc
.Ed
.Pp
The script searches for .git directories within each subdirectory in the
${WORKSPACE} directory.
The presence of the .git directory indicates that the subdirectory is a git
repository which will be updated.
.Pp
The script creates a temporary directory (via GetTmp) that should be removed
upon exit.
Certain circumstances (e.g. some crashes) may prevent the cleanup handler from
being executed leaving the temporary directory in place.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some example uses include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy repopull
.Ed
.Pp
This cycles through each repository in the WORKSPACE directory and executes a
"git pull" command.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy repopull Fl s
.Ed
.Pp
This cycles through each repository in the WORKSPACE directory and executes a
"git pull" command and a "git status" command.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy repopull Fl b Sy dev
.Ed
.Pp
This cycles through each repository in the WORKSPACE directory checks out the
dev branch and executes a "git pull" command.
Please note that the actual branch checked out is interpolated using the
associative array defined in the user's ~/.gitrepos file.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr resetbranchbeforepullintodev 1 ,
.Xr updateprojects 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
