.\" Manpage for resetbranchbeforepullintodev {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd August 21, 2023
.Dt RESETBRANCHBEFOREPULLINTODEV 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm resetbranchbeforepullintodev
.Nd Reset git branch commit history to a single commit
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy resetbranchbeforepullintodev
.Op Fl s Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Used to reset git branch history to a single commit.
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy resetbranchbeforepullintodev
.Op Fl s Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Ed
.Pp
Available command line options are:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl s
Skip Push
.Pp
Do not "git push \-\-force" the reset branch back to origin.
.El
.Ss STANDARD OPTIONS
This script was built using the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library.
Standard command line options provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library are:
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) and
.Fl X Ar <option>
(XOption).
XOptions include Confirm, Force, NoAction, Quiet, Version, and Yes.
They are enabled using the first letter of the option (lower or upper case) as
.Ar <option> .
Please see
.Xr libui.sh 3
for more information.
.Pp
Note: Option value defaults can be obtained by executing with the
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) option.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 6n
.It .git
A check is made for the .git directory to ensure that the current working
directory is a git repository root.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some example uses include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy resetbranchbeforepullintodev
.Ed
.Pp
This resets the commits in the current branch back to the origin of the branch,
creates a new overall commit, and then forces a push back to origin.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy resetbranchbeforepullintodev \-C
.Ed
.Pp
This performs the same actions as above, however, the user is asked to confirm
each step before it is performed.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy resetbranchbeforepullintodev \-s
.Ed
.Pp
This resets the commits in the current branch back to the origin of the branch,
and creates a new overall commit.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
skips the forced push back to origin.
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr repopull 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
F Harvell (fharvell@siteservices.net)
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
