.\" Manpage for showmodifieddotfiles {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd August 21, 2023
.Dt SHOWMODIFIEDDOTFILES 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm showmodifieddotfiles
.Nd Find dotfiles modified since being installed
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy showmodifieddotfiles
.Op Fl d Fl f Fl M Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl r Ar <reference_directory>
.Op Fl s Ar <source_directory>
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Used to list dotfiles that have been modified since being installed.
.Pp
Note: By default, searches only the files / directories contained in the
installed manifest.
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy showmodifieddotfiles
.Op Fl d Fl f Fl M Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl r Ar <reference_directory>
.Op Fl s Ar <source_directory>
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Ed
.Pp
Available command line options are:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl d
Differences
.Pp
Display file differences from reference directory.
.Pp
Displays differences (using diff) between source directory files and the
reference directory files.
This is only available with the
.Fl r
(Reference Directory) option.
.It Fl f
Fast
.Pp
Do not search the ".vim" directory when searching for differences.
.It Fl M
(No) Manifest
.Pp
Do not use the manifest when searching for differences.
Note: This will search all files in the source directory.
.It Fl r Ar <reference_directory>
Reference Directory
.Pp
The reference directory for the analysis.
.Pp
The files in the source directory are compared to the files in the reference
directory, if supplied.
Difference can be displayed using the
.Fl d
option.
.It Fl s Ar <source>
Source
.Pp
The source directory for the analysis.
.Pp
The source directory is the path searched for modified files.
Defaults to the user's home directory.
.El
.Ss STANDARD OPTIONS
This script was built using the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library.
Standard command line options provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library are:
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) and
.Fl X Ar <option>
(XOption).
XOptions include Confirm, Force, NoAction, Quiet, Version, and Yes.
They are enabled using the first letter of the option (lower or upper case) as
.Ar <option> .
Please see
.Xr libui.sh 3
for more information.
.Pp
Note: Option value defaults can be obtained by executing with the
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) option.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 16n
.It .env/var/installed/manifest
File contains a listing of the files installed when the last dotfiles package
was installed.
.It .env/var/installed/date
File contains the date (seconds after the epoch) when the last dotfiles package
was installed.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some example uses include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy showmodifieddotfiles
.Ed
.Pp
Lists all files from the contents of the .env/manifest file that have been
modified since the date contained in the .env/var/installed file.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr createsitedotfilesfromdefaults 1 ,
.Xr installdotfiles 1 ,
.Xr packagedotfiles 1 ,
.Xr savecurrentsitedotfilesasdefaults 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
