.\" Manpage for splitchecksum {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd June 10, 2023
.Dt SPLITCHECKSUM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm splitchecksum
.Nd Split file(s) and display a checksum for each split
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy splitchecksum
.Op Fl C Fl F Fl H Fl h Fl N Fl Q Fl V Fl Y
.Op Fl s Ar <split_size>
.Op Fl X Ar <level>
.Ar <file> ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Used to split each of the files provided and display a CRC32 checksum for each
split.
Also provides a CRC32 checksum for the entire file.
If multiple files are provided, each file is separately split and displayed in a
separate block.
.Pp
Example output:
.Bd -literal
     Lines        CRC32 Sum      CRC32    Bytes Filename
---------- ---------------- ---------- -------- ---------------
  0 -  50:       2144400426 2144400426     1374 splitchecksum-aa
 50 - 100:       4091816874 1947416448      957 splitchecksum-ab
100 - 130:       5813064636 1721247762     1077 splitchecksum-ac
---------- ---------------- ---------- -------- ---------------
      130:       5813064636 2526214123     3408 /home/fharvell/.env/bin/splitchecksum
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy splitchecksum
.Op Fl l Fl C Fl F Fl H Fl h Fl N Fl Q Fl V Fl Y
.Op Fl s Ar <split_size>
.Op Fl X Ar <level>
.Ar <file> ...
.Ed
.Pp
Available command line options are:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl s Ar <split_size>
Split Size
.Pp
Specify the size (number of lines) of each split.
The default is 100 lines.
.It Ar <file>
The name of the file(s) to be processed.
.El
.Ss STANDARD OPTIONS
This script was built using the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library.
Standard command line options provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library are:
.Fl C
(Confirm),
.Fl F
(Force),
.Fl H
or
.Fl h
(Help),
.Fl N
(No Action),
.Fl Q
(Quiet),
.Fl V
(Version),
.Fl X Ar <level>
(XDebug
.Ar <level> ) Ns ,
and
.Fl Y
(Yes).
Please see
.Xr libui.sh 3
for more information.
.Pp
Note: Option value defaults can be obtained by executing with the
.Fl H
or
.Fl h
(Help) option.
.Sh FILES
The script creates a temporary directory (via GetTmp) where the splits are
saved.
The temporary directory should be removed upon exit.
Certain circumstances (e.g. some crashes) may prevent the cleanup handler from
being executed leaving the temporary directory in place.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some example uses include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy splitchecksum path/to/file
.Ed
.Pp
This splits path/to/file into one block and provides the checksum and a whole
file checksum.
Note: The checksums will be the same.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy splitchecksum \-s 100 path/to/file
.Ed
.Pp
This splits path/to/file into block of 100 lines each and provides the checksum
for each split and a whole file checksum.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr linechecksum 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
