.\" Manpage for star {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2025 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd February 22, 2024
.Dt STAR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm star
.Nd Manage simple text archives (.star files)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy star
.Op Fl c Fl x Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl f Ar <filename>
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Op Ar <filepath>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Manages simple text archives (.star files) where only text files are
concatenated together with a separator line containing the filename, directory,
file permissions and file timestamp.
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy star
.Op Fl c Fl x Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl f Ar <filename>
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Op Ar <filepath>
.Ed
.Pp
Available command line options are:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl c
Create
.Pp
Create a new text archive (.star file) from the provided
.Ar <filepath> .
.Pp
Note: If any files in the provided
.Ar <filepath>
are identified as non-text, they are skipped.
.It Fl f Ar <filename>
Archive Filename
.Pp
The filename for the archive.
.Pp
If no filename is provided or if the filename "-" is provided, the archive
content will be directed to STDOUT.
.Pp
Note: When creating an archive, if a filename is provided but does not have an
extension, a ".star" extension will be added.
.It Fl x
Extract
.Pp
Extract files from the archive into the provided
.Ar <filepath> .
.It Ar <filepath>
File Path
.Pp
When used with
.Fl c
(Create), the file path should contain the files to be archived.
When used with
.Fl x
(Extract), the file path is the destination for the extracted files.
.Pp
Note: If the
.Ar <filepath>
is not provided, the current working directory (i.e., ".") will be used.
.El
.Ss STANDARD OPTIONS
This script was built using the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library.
Standard command line options provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library are:
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) and
.Fl X Ar <option>
(XOption).
XOptions include Confirm, Force, NoAction, Overwrite, Quiet, Version, and Yes.
They are enabled using the first letter of the option (lower or upper case) as
.Ar <option> .
Please see
.Xr libui.sh 3
for more information.
.Pp
Note: Option value defaults can be obtained by executing with the
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) option.
.Sh FILES
The script will create or read from the file provided with the
.Fl f Ar <filename>
option flag.
The script, with the
.Fl c
(Crate) option flag, will collect files from
.Ar <filepath>
parameter.
With the
.Fl x
(Extract) option flag, the script will create files in the directory provided as
the
.Ar <filepath>
parameter.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some example uses include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy star -c -f /tmp/keep .
.Ed
.Pp
Creates an archive named "keep.star" in the /tmp directory with the text files
contained in the current directory.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy star -x -f /tmp/archive.star .
.Ed
.Pp
Extracts the files contained in archive.star into the current directory.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr createpackage 1 ,
.Xr starx 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
