.\" Manpage for starx {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2025 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd February 1, 2024
.Dt STARX 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm starx
.Nd Extract simple text archives (.star files)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy starx
.Op Ar <filepath>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Extracts files from a simple text archive (.star file) into the current
directory.
The
.Sy starx
command was implemented as a standalone, extract-only command.
The
.Xr star 1
command provides full support for simple text archives (.star files).
See the
.Xr star 1
command for more information.
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy starx
.Op Ar <filepath>
.Ed
.Pp
When executed, the script extracts files from the
.Ar <filepath>
archive into the current directory.
.Sh FILES
The script will read from the file path provided as
.Ar <filepath> .
.Sh EXAMPLES
This example:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy starx /tmp/archive.star
.Ed
.Pp
Extracts the files contained in archive.star into the current directory.
.Sh NOTES
While the
.Sy starx
command is provided with the
.Xr libuil.sh 3
user interface library, it does not utilize the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library. It is provided as a separate shell script to support the transfer of
simple text archive (.star) files when the full
.Xr libui.sh 3
library has not yet been installed.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr star 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
