.\" Manpage for updatevimpackages {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd June 5, 2023
.Dt UPDATEVIMPACKAGES 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm updatevimpackages
.Nd Used to update relevant vim package files in the .vim directory.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy updatevimpackages
.Op Fl s Fl C Fl F Fl H Fl h Fl N Fl Q Fl V Fl Y
.Op Fl b Ar <branch>
.Op Fl X Ar <level>
.Op Ar <WORKSPACE>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Used to update relevant git repositories in the WORKSPACE directory and
update the vim package files in the .vim directory.
The script searches for the vim packages in the .vim directory and then attempts
to perform a git pull on the same directories in the WORKSPACE directory.
.Pp
The WORKSPACE directory needs to be the path above the git repositories.
If
.Ar <WORKSPACE>
is not provided, the path provided in the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable will be used.
If the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable is not defined, the ~/.workspace file will be sourced (to
define
.Ev WORKSPACE Ns ).
If the ~/.workspace file does not exist, the current working directory will be
used.
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy updatevimpackages
.Op Fl s Fl v Fl C Fl F Fl H Fl h Fl N Fl Q Fl V Fl Y
.Op Fl b Ar <branch>
.Op Fl X Ar <level>
.Op Ar <WORKSPACE>
.Ed
.Pp
Available command line options are:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl s
Status
.Pp
Display repo status.
.It Op Ar <WORKSPACE>
The workspace directory.
.Pp
If the workspace directory is not provided, the path provided in the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable is used.
If the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable is not defined, the ~/.workspace file will be sourced (to
define
.Ev WORKSPACE Ns ).
If the ~/.workspace file does not exist, the current working directory will be
used.
.El
.Ss STANDARD OPTIONS
This script was built using the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library.
Standard command line options provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library are:
.Fl C
(Confirm),
.Fl F
(Force),
.Fl H
or
.Fl h
(Help),
.Fl N
(No Action),
.Fl Q
(Quiet),
.Fl V
(Version),
.Fl X Ar <level>
(XDebug
.Ar <level> ) Ns ,
and
.Fl Y
(Yes).
Please see
.Xr libui.sh 3
for more information.
.Pp
Note: Option value defaults can be obtained by executing with the
.Fl H
or
.Fl h
(Help) option.
.Sh FILES
The ~/.workspace file is sourced if the
.Ev WORKSPACE
variable is not defined.
.Pp
The script searches for the vim packages in the .vim directory and then attempts
to perform a git pull on the same directories in the WORKSPACE directory.
.Pp
The script creates a temporary directory (via GetTmp) that should be removed
upon exit.
Certain circumstances (e.g. some crashes) may prevent the cleanup handler from
being executed leaving the temporary directory in place.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some example uses include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy updatevimpackages
.Ed
.Pp
This attempts to update each of the packages in the .vim directory from
repositories in the WORKSPACE directory after performing a git pull on each.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy updatevimpackages Fl s
.Ed
.Pp
This attempts to update each of the packages in the .vim directory from
repositories in the WORKSPACE directory after performing a git pull and a git
status on each.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr updateprojects 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
