.\" Manpage for updateprojects {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2025 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd January 2, 2024
.Dt UPDATEPROJECTS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm updateprojects
.Nd Update git repos inside the WORKSPACE directory and execute the .buildrecipe
script to rebuild the project.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy updateprojects
.Op Fl s Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl p Ar <project>
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Op Ar <WORKSPACE>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Updates any projects in the WORKSPACE directory that have .buildrecipe files.
The projects are updated by performing a "git pull" and then sourcing and
executing the contents of the .buildrecipe file.
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy updateprojects
.Op Fl s Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl p Ar <project>
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Op Ar <WORKSPACE>
.Ed
.Pp
Available command line options are:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl p Ar <project>
Project
.Pp
The project to update.
If no project is provided, all projects will be updated.
.It Fl s
Status
.Pp
Display repo status using "git status".
.It Ar <WORKSPACE>
The workspace directory.
.Pp
The WORKSPACE directory needs to be the path above the project git repositories.
.Pp
If
.Ar <WORKSPACE>
is not provided, the path provided in the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable will be used.
If the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable is not defined, the ~/.config/workspace file will be
sourced (to define
.Ev WORKSPACE Ns ).
If the ~/.config/workspace file does not exist, the current working directory
will be used.
.El
.Ss STANDARD OPTIONS
This script was built using the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library.
Standard command line options provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library are:
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) and
.Fl X Ar <option>
(XOption).
XOptions include Confirm, Force, NoAction, Overwrite, Quiet, Version, and Yes.
They are enabled using the first letter of the option (lower or upper case) as
.Ar <option> .
Please see
.Xr libui.sh 3
for more information.
.Pp
Note: Option value defaults can be obtained by executing with the
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) option.
.Sh FILES
The ~/.config/workspace file is sourced if the
.Ev WORKSPACE
variable is not defined.
.Pp
The script searches for repos in the WORKSPACE directory that contain
a .buildrecipe file.
For each such repo, the script performs a "git pull" and then sources and
executes the contents of the .buildrecipe file.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some example uses include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy updateprojects
.Ed
.Pp
This attempts to update each of the projects in the repositories in the
WORKSPACE directory after performing a git pull on each.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy updateprojects Fl s
.Ed
.Pp
This attempts to update each of the packages in the repositories in the
WORKSPACE directory after performing a git pull and a git status on each.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr updatevimpackges 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
