.\" Manpage for wssetup {libui tool}
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2025 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd January 2, 2024
.Dt WSSETUP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wssetup
.Nd Set up the provided directory as the current workspace
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy wssetup
.Op Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Ar <workspace>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Used to create a ~/.config/workspace file containing the information necessary
to set the workspace when accessed by workspace knowledgable tools and scripts.
.Pp
The
.Nm
script can be executed using the following:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy wssetup
.Op Fl h Fl H
.Op Fl X Ar <option>
.Ar <workspace>
.Ed
.Pp
Available command line options are:
.Ar <workspace>
The workspace directory, i.e., the directory above the working git repositories.
.Ss STANDARD OPTIONS
This script was built using the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library.
Standard command line options provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
library are:
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) and
.Fl X Ar <option>
(XOption).
XOptions include Confirm, Force, NoAction, Overwrite, Quiet, Version, and Yes.
They are enabled using the first letter of the option (lower or upper case) as
.Ar <option> .
Please see
.Xr libui.sh 3
for more information.
.Pp
Note: Option value defaults can be obtained by executing with the
.Fl h
or
.Fl H
(Help) option.
.Sh FILES
The script creates a .config/workspace file in the user's home directory.
The .config/workspace file contains shell commands that configure the workspace,
in particular, commands to set the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some example uses include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy wssetup path/to/workspace
.Ed
.Pp
This creates a .config/workspace file in the user's home directory that contains
shell commands to configure the workspace and set the
.Ev WORKSPACE
environment variable to contain the absolute
.Ar <path/to/workspace> .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr linechecksum 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
