.\" Manpage for libuiWorkspace.sh
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos. Please
.\" note that the libui library is young and under active development.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd June 9, 2023
.Dt LIBUIWORKSPACE.SH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libuiWorkspace.sh
.Nd Workspace support tools for the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy LoadMod Workspace
.Pp
.Sy ValidateWorkspace
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
libui.sh mod provides workspace support utilities.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides the following commands:
.Ss ValidateWorkspace
The following command verifies the workspace and ensures that the WORKSPACE
environment variable is set:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy ValidateWorkspace
.Op Fl w Fl W
.Ed
.Pp
The command options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl w
Remain in the workspace directory after validation.
.It Fl W
Disable the warning about not using the current path.
.El
.Pp
Checks the WORKSPACE environment variable and, if it is not set, sources the
user's ${HOME}/.workspace file.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Examples include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy ValidateWorkspace
.Ed
.Pp
Checks the WORKSPACE environment variable and, if it is not set, sources the
user's ${HOME}/.workspace file.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
