.\" Manpage for libuiProfile.sh
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\" Please note that the libui library is young and under active development.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd May 15, 2023
.Dt LIBUIDATE.SH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libuiProfile.sh
.Nd Profile file mod for the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy LoadMod Profile
.Pp
.Sy LoadProfile
.Fl P
.Ar <file_path>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides a capability for loading a profile file between the configuration
and the initialization.
The profile file is sourced and should be a viable shell script.
The rationale for the profile file is to set multiple variables to non-default
values and/or pre-loading option and parameter variable values.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides the following commands:
.Ss LoadProfile
The LoadProfile command changes the format of a provided date / time value.
.Pp
.Sy LoadProfile
.Fl P
.Ar <file_path>
.Pp
The command options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl P Ar <file_path>
Provides the
.Ar <file_path>
path to the profile file to load.
.Pp
Note: This command is automatically called from within Initialize to load a
profile if the
.Fl P
(Profile) option is provided on the command line.
.Sh EXAMPLES
An example:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy LoadProfile -P test.profile
.Ed
.Pp
Result: Sources the
.Ar test.profile
file.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
