.\" Manpage for libuiUser.sh
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\" Please note that the libui library is young and under active development.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd June 10, 2023
.Dt LIBUIUSER.SH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libuiUser.sh
.Nd User Utilities Mod for the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy LoadMod User
.Pp
.Sy SetUserInfo
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
libui.sh mod provides a function for loading and setting user information.
The information is stored in the ${HOME}/.user file (i.e. a .user file in the
users home directory).
The ${HOME}/.user file is sourced when the
.Sx User
libui.sh mod is loaded with the
.Sy LoadMod User
command.
The .user file contains variable assignments enabling access to the stored home
information.
.Pp
Note: If the
.Sy LoadMod User
command is executed and there is not an existing ${HOME}/.user file, the
.Nm
libui.sh mod will automatically call the
.Sx SetUserInfo
command.
This will effectively create and load the user information.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides the following commands:
.Ss SetUserInfo
The SetUserInfo command asks questions and the answers are stored in the
~/.user file.
.Pp
.Sy SetUserInfo
.Pp
When executed, the
.Sy SetUserInfo
command, will ask the user a series of questions and create a simple shell
script in the ~/.user file that can sourced.
After creating the ~/.user file, it is sourced.
The questions asked are based upon the contents of the "userinfo" array
variable.
The command knows to ask clearer user questions for the NAME, EMAIL, and COLORS
user information variables.
Other variables will simply be asked as,
.Qq Enter value for Ar <variable> Ns \&:
It is possible to set the userinfo array with a requested set of user
information variables prior to calling the
.Sy SetUserInfo
command.
.Pp
Note: The ${HOME}/.user file is also sourced whenever the
.Sy LoadMod User
command is executed to load the module.
.Sh FILES
The
.Nm
libui mod helps manage the user's ${HOME}/.user file.
This .user file is created in the user's home directory.
It stores information about the user that can be loaded by scripts to help
personalize output generated by the script.
The contents of the ${HOME}/.user file also contains an array declaration that
defines the user information variables that should be defined.
.Pp
An example file:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
#!/bin/zsh
##### User Information
userinfo=( 'NAME' 'EMAIL' 'COLORS' )
NAME="F Harvell"
EMAIL="fharvell@siteservices.net"
COLORS=true
export NAME EMAIL COLORS
.Ed
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some examples include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy SetUserInfo
.Ed
.Pp
Result: Ask questions to create the ${HOME}/.user file.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr date 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh NOTES
The
.Nm
Uses the
.Xr date 1
command to perform the date / time conversions.
It is, therefore, dependent upon the
.Xr date 1
command and can only perform the conversions provided by the
.Xr date 1
command.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
