.\" Manpage for libuiTimer.sh
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\" Please note that the libui library is young and under active development.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd June 10, 2023
.Dt LIBUITIMER.SH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libuiTimer.sh
.Nd Timer Utilities Mod for the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy LoadMod Timer
.Pp
.Sy StartTimer Op Ar <timer_variable>
.Pp
.Sy GetElapsed Op Ar <timer_variable>
.Pp
.Sy FormatElapsed Op Fl d
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides functions for starting, collecting, and formatting timer
information.
Timers can be started at any time and can be individually tracked by providing a
.Ar <timer_variable>
name.
Time elapsed, when requested by the
.Sx GetElapsed
command is provided in the
.Sx ${ELAPSED}
variable.
The
.Sx ${ELAPSED}
variable is also consumed and updated by the
.Sx FormatElapsed
command.
.Pp
Note: The default (unnamed) timer is started when the
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sy Initialization
is executed, assuming the
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod has been loaded, and can be used to determine the overall elapsed time for
the main script.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides the following commands:
.Ss StartTimer
The StartTimer command starts a timer.
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy StartTimer Op Ar <timer_variable>
.Ed
.Pp
When executed, the
.Sy StartTimer
command, will start a timer.
The default timer is unnamed.
A
.Ar <timer_variable>
name can be provided to start individual timers.
.Ss GetElapsed
The GetElapsed command captures the time elapsed since the last StartTimer
command was executed.
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy GetElapsed Op Ar <timer_variable>
.Ed
.Pp
When executed, the
.Sy GetElapsed
command, will capture the number of seconds that have elapsed since the last
StartTimer associated with the
.Ar <timer_variable>
was executed.
If no
.Ar <timer_variable>
name is provided, the
.Sy GetElapsed
command will provide the number of seconds that have elapsed since the end of
the
.Sy Initialization
Callback.
(This assumes that the
.Sy LoadMod Timer
command was executed prior to Initialization.)
.Pp
The elapsed time in seconds will be provided in the
.Sy ${ELAPSED}
variable.
.Pp
Note: The Z shell provides subsecond timing while the bash shell is limited to
integer second timing.
.Ss FormatElapsed
The FormatElapsed command formats the number of seconds contained in the
.Sy ${ELAPSED}
variable into a more human friendly format.
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy FormatElapsed Op Fl d
.Ed
.Pp
When executed, the
.Sy FormatElapsed
command, will
convert the number of seconds contained in the
.Sy ${ELAPSED}
variable into the format "HHH:MM:SS.ssss", unless the
.Fl d
(Days) option is provided.
If the
.Fl d
(Days) optin is provided, the format includes the number of days, i.e.,
"X day[s] HHH:MM:SS.ssss".
.Sh VARIABLES
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod
uses the
.Sy ${ELAPSED}
variable to exchange elapsed time.
Other variables are also created and use as specified by the
.Ar <timer_variable>
parameter passed to the various commands.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some examples include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy StartTimer Ar first_pass
.Ed
.Pp
This will start a timer and associate it with the
.Ar first_pass
variable.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy GetElapsed Ar first_pass
.Ed
.Pp
This will store the number of seconds elapsed
since the
.Ar first_pass
timer was set with the
.Sx StartTimer
command in the
.Sx ${ELAPSED}
variable.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy FormatElapsed
.Ed
.Pp
This will format the number of seconds contained in the
.Sx ${ELAPSED}
variable in the format "HHH:MM:SS.ssss".
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy FormatElapsed Fl d
.Ed
.Pp
This will format the number of seconds contained in the
.Sx ${ELAPSED}
variable in the format "X day[s] HH:MM:SS.ssss".
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr awk 1 ,
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr bc 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh NOTES
When the Bash shell is used, the
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod uses the
.Xr bc 1
or the
.Xr awk 1
command to provide the floating point calculations needed to format the elapsed
seconds.
It is, therefore, dependent upon the
.Xr bc 1
or the
.Xr awk 1
commands.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
