.\" Manpage for libuiSyslog.sh
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos. Please
.\" note that the libui library is young and under active development.
.\"
.\" This content and associated files are published by siteservices.net, Inc.
.\" are marked CCO 1.0. Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with the
.\" interest the full rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell this content and all associated files. To view a copy of CCO
.\" 1.0, visit https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/.
.\"
.\" purpose, and noninfringement. In no event shall the authors or publishers be
.\" liable for any claim, damages, or other liability, whether in an action of
.\" contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of, or in connection with
.\" the use of this content or any of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd March 22, 2026
.Dt LIBUISYSLOG.SH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libuiSyslog.sh
.Nd Syslog Utility Mod for the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy LoadMod Syslog
.Pp
.Sy Syslog
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides a function that records a syslog entry.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides the following commands:
.Ss Syslog
The following command writes an entry to the system syslog:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy Syslog
.Op Fl p Ar <priority>
.Op Ar <message>
.Ed
.Pp
The command options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl p Ar <priority>
The syslog
.Ar <priority>
sent with the
.Ar <message> .
The priority may be specified numerically or as a facility.level pair.
The priority defaults to "user.notice".
.El
.Pp
If
.Ar <message>
is provided, logs
.Ar <message>
to syslog using the
.Xr logger 1
command with the
.Ar <priority>
priority.
If
.Ar <message>
is not provided, the script command line executed is logged.
.Sh VARIABLES
The following environment variables are used by the
.Nm
mod if provided:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Ev LIBUI_SYSLOG_PRIORITY
Provides the default user priority.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some examples include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy LoadMod Syslog
.Sy Syslog -p user.info "Updated the command database."
.Ed
.Pp
Adds the message to the syslog with the priority "user.info".
The message includes the name of the script.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy LoadMod Info
.Sy Syslog
.Ed
.Pp
Adds a generic message to the syslog that includes the name of the script.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
