.\" Manpage for libuiDate.sh
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\" Please note that the libui library is young and under active development.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd May 15, 2023
.Dt LIBUIDATE.SH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libuiDate.sh
.Nd Date Utilities Mod for the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy LoadMod Date
.Pp
.Sy ConvertDate
.Op Fl i Ar <input_format>
.Op Fl o Ar <output_format>
.Ar <variable_name>
.Ar <date_time_value>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides a function for converting date formats.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides the following commands:
.Ss ConvertDate
The ConvertDate command changes the format of a provided date / time value.
.Pp
.Sy ConvertDate
.Op Fl i Ar <input_format>
.Op Fl o Ar <output_format>
.Ar <variable_name>
.Ar <date_time_value>
.Pp
The command options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl i
The format of the provided
.Sm off
.Ar <date_time_value> .
.Sm on
The format values follow the specification provided by the
.Xr date 1
command.
See the
.Xr date 1
command for more information.
The default format is "%a %b %d %T %Z %Y".
.It Fl o
The format for the desired date output.
The format values follow the specification provided by the
.Xr date 1
command.
See the
.Xr date 1
command for more information.
The default output format is "%Y-%m-%d".
.It Ar <variable_name>
The name of the variable that the
.Nm
function should place the output format converted date / time value.
.It Ar <date_time_value>
The date / time value that should be converted.
This value must match the input format for proper interpretation.
.El
.Pp
Performs a simple conversion of the provided
.Ar <date_time_value>
provided and places the converted value in the
.Ar <variable_name>
variable.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some examples include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy ConvertDate -i "'%a %b %d %T %Z %Y'" -o "'%Y-%m-%d'" today "'Tue Dec 28 18:26:37 EST 2021'"
.Ed
.Pp
Result: The variable
.Ar today
is assignd the value '2021-12-28'
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr date 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh NOTES
The
.Nm
Uses the
.Xr date 1
command to perform the date / time conversions.
It is, therefore, dependent upon the
.Xr date 1
command and can only perform the conversions provided by the
.Xr date 1
command.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
