.\" Manpage for libuiRoot.sh
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos. Please
.\" note that the libui library is young and under active development.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd September 1, 2023
.Dt LIBUIROOT.SH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libuiRoot.sh
.Nd Root user support tools for the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy LoadMod Root
.Pp
.Sy AllowRoot
.Pp
.Sy RequireRoot
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
libui.sh mod provides functions for allowing or requiring the root user when
executing the script.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides the following commands:
.Ss AllowRoot
The following configuration option allows the "root" user (UID 0) to execute the
script:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy AllowRoot
.Ed
.Pp
Allows root (UID 0) to execute the main script.
Without this option, if root attempts to execute the script, it will generate an
error and exit.
.Pp
.Em IMPORTANT :
The main script must use the
.Sy AllowRoot
configuration option prior to calling
.Sy Initialize Qq Sy ${@} .
.Ss RequireRoot
The following configuration option requires the "root" user (UID 0) to execute
the script:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy RequireRoot
.Ed
.Pp
Requires root (UID 0) to execute the main script.
Without this option, if the script it executed by someone other than root, it
will generate an error and exit.
.Pp
.Em IMPORTANT :
The main script must use the
.Sy RequireRoot
configuration option prior to calling
.Sy Initialize Qq Sy ${@} .
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some examples include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy AllowRoot
.Ed
.Pp
Result: Allows the main script to be executed by the root user.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy RequireRoot
.Ed
.Pp
Result: Requires the main script to be executed by the root user.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh NOTES
The determination of the root user is accomplished through the UID and EID
environment variables.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
