.\" Manpage for libuiMultiuser.sh
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos. Please
.\" note that the libui library is young and under active development.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd June 5, 2023
.Dt LIBUIMULTIUSER.SH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libuiMultiuser.sh
.Nd Multiuser support tools for the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy LoadMod Multiuser
.Pp
.Sy Multiuser
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
libui.sh mod enables multiuser support by engaging file locking and other
support to minimize problems when a script is executed by multiple users
concurrently.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides the following commands:
.Ss Multiuser
The following command returns true if the script is in multiuser mode:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy Multiuser
.Ed
.Pp
Returns true if the script is in multiuser mode, otherwise returns false.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some examples include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy Multiuser
.Ed
.Pp
Result: Returns true if the script is in multiuser mode, otherwise returns
false.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
