.\" Manpage for libuiTerm.sh
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\" Please note that the libui library is young and under active development.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd December 31, 2023
.Dt LIBUITERM.SH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libuiTerm.sh
.Nd Terminal Utilities Mod for the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy LoadMod Term
.Pp
.Sy \&At
.Pp
.Sy GetCursor
.Pp
.Sy RestoreCursor
.Pp
.Sy SaveCursor
.Pp
.Sy SetCursor
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides commands for manipulating the terminal and cursor location.
The
.Sx \&At
command is a support command for executing another command at a specific postion
on the terminal.
The
.Sx GetCursor
and
.Sx SetCursor
commands get the current cursor position and set (i.e., move) the cursor to a
specific position.
The
.Sx SaveCursor
and
.Sx RestoreCursor
commands tell the terminal to save the current cursor position and to restore
the cursor position (to the last saved position).
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides the following commands:
.Ss \&At
The following command executes a command at the specified location in the
terminal window.
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy \&At Ar <row> Ar <col> Ar <command>
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Sy \&At
command is a support command that saves the current cursor position, moves the
cursor to the provided
.Ar <row>
and
.Ar <col> ,
executes the provided command (which can be multiple words), and then restores
the cursor position.
.Ss GetCursor
The following command gets the current cursor position.
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy GetCursor
.Ed
.Pp
Gets the current cursor position.
The cursor position is then available in the variables "ROW" and "COL".
.Ss RestoreCursor
The following command tells the terminal to restore the cursor position.
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy RestoreCursor
.Ed
.Pp
Tells the terminal to restore the cursor to the last saved cursor position.
The
.Sx SaveCursor
command should be used previously to save the current cursor position.
See the
.Sx SaveCursor
command for more information.
.Ss SetCursor
The following command resumes a paused spinner.
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy SetCursor Ar <row> Ar <col>
.Ed
.Pp
Moves the cursor to the provided
.Ar <row>
and
.Ar <col> .
.Ss SaveCursor
The following command tells the terminal to save the current cursor position.
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy SaveCursor
.Ed
.Pp
Tells the terminal to save the current cursor position.
The
.Sx RestoreCursor
command then subsequently be used to restore the cursor to the saved position.
See the
.Sx RestoreCursor
command for more information.
.Sh VARIABLES
The following variables are used / available with the
.Nm
mod:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 6n
.It COL
The current cursor column.
(Only set when the GetCursor command is executed.)
.It MAXCOL
The maximum column value.
The value may change if the terminal window is resized.
.It MAXROW
The maximum row value.
The value may change if the terminal window is resized.
.It ROW
The current cursor row.
(Only set when the GetCursor command is executed.)
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some examples include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy \&At 10 20 Alert -i "Hello"
.Ed
.Pp
Result: Moves to row 10, column 20, and displays "Hello.".
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy GetCursor
.Ed
.Pp
Result: Gets the current cursor position which is then available in the "ROW"
and "COL" variables.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy SetCursor 10 20
.Ed
.Pp
Result: Moves the cursor to row 10, column 20.
Subsequent output will be displayed at that position.
.Pp
Note: Most of the message commands provided by the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library automatically jump to the beginning (i.e., first column)
of the current row before starting to display the provided message.
For many of the commands, you can use the
.Fl i
(In Place) option flag to have the message displayed "in place", i.e., where the
cursor is currently located.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr tput 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh NOTES
The terminal rows and columns start at 0.
The MAXROWS and MAXCOLS values are therefore zero-based (i.e., one less than the
total number of rows and columns).
.Pp
These terminal commands were developed and tested using Xterm compatible
terminals.
While the
.Nm
mod (and the rest of the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library) was built using the terminfo / termcap supported
.Xr tput 1
command, the results on non-Xterm compliant terminals may vary.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
