.\" Manpage for libuiSort.sh
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos.
.\" Please note that the libui library is young and under active development.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2024 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd February 16, 2024
.Dt LIBUISORT.SH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libuiSort.sh
.Nd Sort Utilities Mod for the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy LoadMod Sort
.Pp
.Sy Sort
.Op Fl a Fl A Fl l Fl L Fl n Fl N Fl p Fl u
.Op Fl c Ar <compare_function>
.Ar <array_variable_name> ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
libui.sh mod provides a function for sorting a list contained in an array
variable.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides the following commands:
.Ss Sort
The Sort command sorts the elements in the named array variable.
It supports sorts using a variety of lexicographical algorithms.
.Pp
.Sy Sort
.Op Fl a Fl A Fl l Fl L Fl n Fl N Fl p Fl u
.Op Fl c Ar <compare_function>
.Ar <array_variable_name> ...
.Pp
The command options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -offset 4n -width 4n
.It Fl a
Performs an ASCII ascending sort.
.It Fl A
Performs an ASCII descending sort.
.It Fl c Ar <compare_function_name>
Use the
.Ar <compare_function_name>
shell function to define order within the sort.
.Pp
The
.Ar <compare_function_name>
shell function must take two arguments (i.e. ${1} and ${2}) and return 0 (true)
when ${1} is less than ${2}.
.It Fl l
Performs a lexicographically ascending sort and is the default sort.
.It Fl L
Performs a lexicographically descending sort.
.It Fl n
Performs a numeric ascending sort.
.It Fl N
Performs a numeric descending sort.
.It Fl p
Performs a path depth first sort that sorts deeper paths above shorter paths.
.Pp
The
.Fl p
option is used by the
.Sy RemoveFileList
recursion to delete nested paths.
.It Fl u
Only keep unique values.
Removes any duplicate values from the array.
.It Ar <array_variable_name>
The name of the array variable that contains the list to be sorted.
.El
.Pp
Performs a simple sort of the values contained within the
.Ar <array_variable_name>
array variable.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some examples include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy Sort Ar list
.Ed
.Pp
Result: Sorts the
.Ar list
array (using the default ascending ASCII sort).
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy Sort Fl n Ar list
.Ed
.Pp
Result: Sorts the
.Ar list
array (using an ascending numeric sort).
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr sort 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh NOTES
The
.Fl p
option is used by the
.Sy RemoveFileList
recursion to delete nested paths.
.Pp
The external
.Xr sort 1
command is used when executed by the bash command.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
