.\" Manpage for libuiInfo.sh
.\" Please contact fharvell@siteservices.net to correct errors or typos. Please
.\" note that the libui library is young and under active development.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018-2023 siteservices.net, Inc. and made available in the public
.\" domain.  Permission is unconditionally granted to anyone with an interest,
.\" the rights to use, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell this
.\" content and associated files.
.\"
.\" All content is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, expressed or
.\" implied, including but not limited to merchantability, fitness for a
.\" particular purpose, and noninfringement.  In no event shall the authors or
.\" copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages, or other liability,
.\" whether in an action of contract, tort, or otherwise, arising from, out of,
.\" or in connection with this content or use of the associated files.
.\"
.Dd May 15, 2023
.Dt LIBUIINFO.SH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libuiInfo.sh
.Nd Information Utilities Mod for the
.Xr libui.sh 3
user interface library
.Pp
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy LoadMod Info
.Pp
.Sy UsageInfo
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides functions that display information about the currently executing
script.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod provides the following commands:
.Ss UsageInfo
The following command displays usage (help) information to the user:
.Bd -ragged -offset 4n
.Sy UsageInfo
.Ed
.Pp
Display usage information on STDERR.
.Pp
Note: It is likely that the
.Nm
.Xr libui.sh 3
mod will need to be loaded before calling UsageInfo.
See the
.Sx EXAMPLES
section below for more information.
.Ss VARIABLES
.Pp
Version
.Pp
The following line needs to be present within the main script before sourcing
the library:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy Version+=\&( \(dq Ns Sy ${0} Ar <script_version> Ns Sy \(dq \&)
.Ed
.Pp
The quoting and spacing in the line is important.
It provides the
.Nm
library with the version of the main script.
Version numbers should be in the format of Major.Minor (e.g.: 1.0).
If other scripts are sourced within the main script, a similar version line
should be added in each sourced script.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some examples include:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
.Sy LoadMod Info
.Sy UsageInfo
.Ed
.Pp
Displays usage information about the currently running script.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1 ,
.Xr libui.sh 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An F Harvell
.Mt <fharvell@siteservices.net>
.Sh BUGS
No known bugs.
